feat(ins): add local storage (#4686)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/local-storage/how-to/create-volume.mdx

content:
  h1: How to create a Local Storage volume
  paragraph: Learn how to efficiently create a Local Storage volume with our detailed step-by-step guide. Enhance your storage performance seamlessly.
tags: create Local storage volume add
dates:
  validation: 2025-03-24
  posted: 2025-03-24
categories:
  - local-storage
  - storage
---

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

1. Click **Local Storage** in the **Storage** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com) side menu. The Local Storage page displays.
2. Click **+ Create volume**.
3. Follow the steps in the creation wizard:
    - Choose an [Availability Zone](/instances/concepts/#availability-zone).
    - Configure the volume:
        - Enter a name for your volume or leave the automatically generated name.
        - Define a volume size.
        <Message type="important">

>           The volume size must be at least 1GB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The volume size must be at least 1 GB.
```

        </Message>
    - Select an Instance from the drop-down to attach your volume. This step is optional.
    - Check the estimated cost.
4. Click **Create volume**. The volumes overview page displays.
    <Message type="important">
      The volume must be in the same Availability Zone as the Instance you want to connect it to.
    </Message>

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
